Advanced Data Analytics Project using SQL This project demonstrates how
to perform advanced data analytics directly within a database using SQL.
It covers various techniques to derive business insights from data,
analyze trends, compare performance, segment data, and generate
comprehensive reports. Description This repository contains the SQL
scripts and resources used to conduct an advanced data analytics
project. The project focuses on leveraging the power of SQL to answer
real-world business questions by applying sophisticated analytical
techniques directly within the database environment. Key Features \*
Data Acquisition and Database Setup: Instructions on how to set up the
project database using SQL Server. \* Change Over Time Analysis: Analyze
how key metrics evolve over time to identify trends and seasonality. \*
Cumulative Analysis: Perform progressive aggregations to understand
business growth and cumulative performance. \* Performance Analysis:
Compare current data points against targets or benchmarks to measure
performance. \* Part-to-Whole Analysis: Determine the proportional
contribution of individual categories or segments to the overall
business. \* Data Segmentation: Group data based on specific criteria to
create meaningful segments for targeted analysis. \* Comprehensive
Reporting: Generate detailed Customer and Product reports consolidating
key analytical findings and KPIs. Technologies Used \* SQL: For all data
querying, analysis, and reporting tasks. \* SQL Server: Database
management system used for setting up and hosting the data. \* Database
Concepts: Application of relational database principles. \* Git/GitHub:
For version control and project collaboration. Setup and Installation 1.
Clone the Repository: git clone \[repository_url\]

2\. Database Setup: \* Ensure you have SQL Server installed and running.
\* Obtain the project datasets (refer to the video description or a data
folder if included). \* Set up the database in SQL Server. This
typically involves: \* Executing provided SQL scripts to create the
database and tables. \* Importing data from flat files (e.g., CSV) into
the created tables. \* Alternatively, restoring a database backup if
provided. \* Update connection strings or credentials as necessary.
Usage  1. Connect to your SQL Server database using a client tool (e.g.,
SQL Server Management Studio, Azure Data Studio, DBeaver). 2. Navigate
to the sql_scripts folder (or similar) in the cloned repository. 3.
Execute the SQL scripts sequentially or as needed to perform the
different types of analysis (Change Over Time, Cumulative, etc.). 4. Run
the scripts for the Customer and Product reports to generate the final
outputs. 5. Modify the queries as needed for specific analytical
questions or different datasets. Repository Structure . ├── sql_scripts/
\# Contains SQL files for database setup, analysis, and reports ├──
data/ \# (Optional) Raw or processed data files ├── reports/ \#
(Optional) Generated report outputs or templates ├── .gitignore \#
Specifies intentionally untracked files ├── LICENSE \# Project license
file └── README.md \# This file
